PGD 4 Manual Install DOCS-122 (#5333)
EnterpriseDB/docs: product_docs/docs/pgd/4/admin-manual/installing/05-creating-cluster.mdx

 We recommend you also add the port number of the server to your connection string as `port=5444` for EDB Postgres Advanced Server and `port=5432` for EDB Postgres Extended and Community PostgreSQL.

* **Prepare the first node.** 
To create the cluster, we select and log into one of the hosts Postgres server's `bdrdb` database. 

* **Create the first node.**  
  Run `bdr.create_node` and give the node a name and its connection string where *other* nodes may connect to it.
  * Create the top-level group.
    Create a top-level group for the cluster with `bdr.create_node_group` giving it a single parameter, the name of the top-level group.
  * Create a sub-group.
    Create a sub-group as a child of the top-level group with `bdr.create_node_group` giving it two parameters, the name of the sub-group and the name of the parent (and top-level) group.
  This initializes the first node.

* **Adding the second node.**
  * Create the second node.  
    Log into another initialized node's `bdrdb` database.
    Run `bdr.create_node` and give the node a different name and its connection string where *other* nodes may connect to it.

>   * Join the second node to the cluster

Author: ```suggestion
  * Join the second node to the cluster.
```

    Next, run `bdr.join_node_group` passing two parameters, the connection string for the first node and the name of the sub-group you want the node to join.

* **Adding the third node.**

>   * Create the third node

Author: ```suggestion
  * Create the third node.
```

    Log into another initialized node's `bdrdb` database.
    Run `bdr.create_node` and give the node a different name and its connection string where *other* nodes may connect to it.
  * Join the third node to the cluster
    Next, run `bdr.join_node_group` passing two parameters, the connection string for the first node and the name of the sub-group you want the node to join.

## Worked example

So far, we have:

> * Created three Hosts.

Author: ```suggestion
* Created three hosts.
```

* Installed Postgres Distributed on each host.
* Configured the Postgres server to work with PGD on each host.

To create the cluster, we will tell `host-one`'s Postgres instance that it is a PGD node - `node-one` and create PGD groups on that node.
Then we will tell `host-two` and `host-three`'s Postgres instances that they are PGD nodes - `node-two` and `node-three` and that they should join a group on `node-one`.

### Create connection strings for each node

We calculate the connection strings for each of the node in advance. 
Below are the connection strings for our 3 node example:

| Name       | Node Name  | Private IP      | Connection string                      |
| ---------- | ---------- | --------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| host-one   | node-one   | 192.168.254.166 | host=host-one dbname=bdrdb port=5444   |
| host-two   | node-two   | 192.168.254.247 | host=host-two dbname=bdrdb port=5444   |
| host-three | node-three | 192.167.254.135 | host=host-three dbname=bdrdb port=5444 |

### Preparing the first node 

Log into host-one's Postgres server.

```
ssh admin@host-one
sudo -iu enterprisedb psql bdrdb
```

### Create the first node

> Call the [`bdr.create_node`](/pgd/latest/reference/nodes-management-interfaces#bdrcreate_node) function to create a node, passing it the node name and a connection string which other nodes can use to connect to it.

Author: ```suggestion
Call the [`bdr.create_node`](/pgd/4/bdr/nodes#bdrcreate_node) function to create a node, passing it the node name and a connection string which other nodes can use to connect to it.
```

```
select bdr.create_node('node-one','host=host-one dbname=bdrdb port=5444');
```

#### Create the top-level group

> Call the [`bdr.create_node_group`](/pgd/latest/reference/nodes-management-interfaces#bdrcreate_node_group) function to create a top-level group for your PGD cluster. Passing a single string parameter will create the top-level group with that name. For our example, we will create a top-level group named `pgd`.

Author: ```suggestion
Call the [`bdr.create_node_group`](/pgd/4/bdr/nodes#bdrcreate_node_group) function to create a top-level group for your PGD cluster. Passing a single string parameter will create the top-level group with that name. For our example, we will create a top-level group named `pgd`.
```

```
select bdr.create_node_group('pgd');
```

#### Create a sub-group

Using sub-groups to organize your nodes is preferred as it allows services like PGD proxy, which we will be configuring later, to coordinate their operations.
In a larger PGD installation, multiple sub-groups can exist providing organizational grouping that enables geographical mapping of clusters and localized resilience. 
For that reason, in this example, we are creating a sub-group for our first nodes to enable simpler expansion and use of PGD proxy.

> Call the [`bdr.create_node_group`](/pgd/latest/reference/nodes-management-interfaces#bdrcreate_node_group) function again to create a sub-group of the top-level group. 

Author: ```suggestion
Call the [`bdr.create_node_group`](//pgd/4/bdr/nodes/#bdrcreate_node) function again to create a sub-group of the top-level group. 
```

The sub-group name is the first parameter, the parent group is the second parameter. 
For our example, we will create a sub-group `dc1` as a child of `pgd`.

```

> select bdr.create_node_group('dc1','pgd');

Author: Yes, but this is a manual installation guide and that would mean users having to type the full thing in (as they have to vary it by hand to their deployment) making a process a lot more complicated.

> select bdr.create_node_group('dc1','pgd');

Author: Also, surely 
```
select bdr.create_node_group(
    node_group_name =>'dc1',
    parent_group_name => 'pgd'
);
```

Anyway, resolving this as not doing, but making a note for future non-walkthroughs to make named parameters the norm.

```

### Adding the second node

Log into host-two's Postgres server

```
ssh admin@host-two
sudo -iu enterprisedb psql bdrdb
```

#### Create the second node

> We call the [`bdr.create_node`](/pgd/latest/reference/nodes-management-interfaces#bdrcreate_node) function to create this node, passing it the node name and a connection string which other nodes can use to connect to it.

Author: ```suggestion
We call the [`bdr.create_node`](/pgd/4/bdr/nodes/#bdrcreate_node) function to create this node, passing it the node name and a connection string which other nodes can use to connect to it.
```

```
select bdr.create_node('node-two','host=host-two dbname=bdrdb port=5444');
```

#### Join the second node to the cluster

> Using [`bdr.join_node_group`](/pgd/latest/reference/nodes-management-interfaces#bdrjoin_node_group) we can ask node-two to join node-one's `dc1` group. The function takes as a first parameter the connection string of a node already in the group, and the group name as a second parameter.

Author: ```suggestion
Using [`bdr.join_node_group`](/pgd/4/bdr/nodes/#bdrjoin_node_group) we can ask node-two to join node-one's `dc1` group. The function takes as a first parameter the connection string of a node already in the group, and the group name as a second parameter.
```

```
select bdr.join_node_group('host=host-one dbname=bdrdb port=5444','dc1');
```

### Adding the third node

Log into host-three's Postgres server

```
ssh admin@host-three
sudo -iu enterprisedb psql bdrdb
```

#### Create the third node

> We call the [`bdr.create_node`](/pgd/latest/reference/nodes-management-interfaces#bdrcreate_node) function to create this node, passing it the node name and a connection string which other nodes can use to connect to it.

Author: ```suggestion
We call the [`bdr.create_node`](/pgd/4/bdr/nodes/#bdrcreate_node) function to create this node, passing it the node name and a connection string which other nodes can use to connect to it.
```

```
select bdr.create_node('node-three','host=host-three dbname=bdrdb port=5444');
```

#### Join the third node to the cluster

> Using [`bdr.join_node_group`](/pgd/latest/reference/nodes-management-interfaces#bdrjoin_node_group) we can ask node-three to join node-one's `dc1` group. The function takes as a first parameter the connection string of a node already in the group, and the group name as a second parameter.

Author: ```suggestion
Using [`bdr.join_node_group`](/pgd/4/bdr/nodes/#bdrjoin_node_group) we can ask node-three to join node-one's `dc1` group. The function takes as a first parameter the connection string of a node already in the group, and the group name as a second parameter.
```
